This is my AI YouTube channel that I
blew up in 7 days, and I want you to
start doing the same but even faster.
So, in this video, I'm going to start a
brand new YouTube channel and run it for
24 hours with AI. So, you can [music]
replicate my actions to get similar
results. But, for this to happen, we
need to start right now.
Hour one, selecting the niche.
We are going to be taking inspiration
from this channel here, Frozen. Across
29 uploads, they have gained over 250
million views, and their first upload
was only 3 months ago. If you are
wondering how much this all means in
terms of a financial return, this
channel would have made 50,000 USD,
which means that this channel is earning
$16,000
per month. So, as you can understand,
this is why we are taking this channel
as our inspiration. What this channel is
uploading though are these obsessive
food procedures that are incredibly
time-consuming. As you are watching this
back though, you are probably thinking,
"Jack, this is food content that
requires extreme effort and financial
investment." And that's what I first
thought when I saw this content, too.
But, after further investigation, this
content is being created with AI. If you
pay close attention to certain parts of
some videos, there are small errors that
would not occur if it was a real
recording, like this part here where
there is clearly an issue with the ruler
and there is a face on the chopping
board. At the time when I made this
realization, I still had my doubts
because no one in the comments was
making any remarks about the content
being AI. So, I had to test it out for
myself. Here is my 10-second attempt at
this content.
>> Today, we turn this piece of meat into
an iPhone 17 Pro Max case. First, I trim
the steak to exactly 1 mm in width.
>> It's realistic, right? And just like the
example channel. Besides this test
though, this is not how we are going to
approach this. What creators usually do
when they see a channel like this is to
just replicate the content, but that is
the fastest way to get no results
because YouTube does not reward
duplicates of existing channels. So,
what I'm going to do to avoid this is
study this content. So, there I went
into flow state to analyze the content.
I first started out by opening a Word
document and noted down the title of the
most popular video on the channel, the
amount of views it had, and for each
scene, I noted down certain details,
such as the duration of each scene, a
description of what happened visually,
the script, and a screenshot of the
scene. Laying out the video like this in
a structured way forces you to really
pay attention to how these videos are
being created, which will allow us to
replicate the source that are within
these viral videos. And I repeated this
process for the three most popular
videos on the channel to increase our
sample size. And after 18 minutes of
repetitive work, the document was
complete. So, I have mapped out how I
think these videos are being created,
and to help you understand, let's break
down this one here with 35 million
views. The video starts with a
declaration.
>> Today, we are pinching 909,099
broccoli florets.
>> Which is what we are going to call the
declare phase. Then the creator moves
into an assessment phase, such as in
this video, the florets are inspected
and measured. Next comes what I like to
call the isolate phase, where in this
video, each floret is opened and a
single pinch of salt is inserted one by
one. After that, there's usually a time
lapse of some intricate process, which
we are going to call the process phase.
And typically, there is a build phase
where all the parts come together
quickly. And finally, the reveal phase
of the finished product. And we can
visually represent the structure on a
graph that looks like this. And this is
what we're going to call the general
formula of the Bros and channel. And
what I think we can do with this
structure that is proven with over 250
million views is that we can apply it to
a different topic to create our own
niche that has no competition. But, we
do have to be careful here. Brazzers
channel does satisfy three criteria that
allows this content to perform so well,
and we must ensure that our new topic
does satisfy each of these criteria. For
criteria one, the content has to be
universally relatable. Brazzers makes
videos about food. There's no niche
knowledge or specific interest required
to understand that. It's a matter of
everyday life, and that's one of the
reasons why his videos get so many
views. It's instantly understandable and
accessible for everyone. Criteria two,
there needs to be an emotional hook.
Remember those comments that I was
showing you? Everyone is calling the
creator insane for spending so much time
on this. The viewer sees an irrational
amount of effort for a pointless
outcome, and they cannot look away. And
in the case of Brazzers, he is
triggering an emotion of absurdity. So,
whatever topic we decide on, there needs
to be some type of emotional hook.
Finally, for criteria three, completion
compulsion. As you know, in the hook of
the videos, the creator gives a
declaration, and viewers want to see
that followed through and completed.
That's why retention on these videos
would be so high and another reason for
the channel's success. So, now with
these criteria identified, it begs the
question of what exactly are we going to
select as our topic? And we are in luck
because I've been thinking about this.
For as long as I can remember, I have
seen many pet videos perform extremely
well because it's a highly relatable
topic. Now, I have brainstormed about
how we could further shape this idea to
fulfill the remaining two criteria. And
what I think we can do is create an AI
pet salon where pets will come to us
dirty and then leave completely
transformed, which does fulfill our
completion compulsion criteria and
fulfills our emotional hook. Because we
will go to extreme lengths in the
grooming process to create an absurdity
emotion. With the criteria fulfilled, I
think there is no reason why we won't
get crazy results. Of course, this is
dependent on if we can get good outputs
using AI. Because I don't have the funds
to invest in a real pet salon, nor do we
have the time. Because we only have 24
hours here. So, I do view this process
as slightly problematic. But, let's find
out whether we can do this together.
Channel setup.
This is the YouTube channel that we will
be using to upload our videos on. If I
click on the more section, you will
notice that the account was created 7
months ago. If you want to get started
on YouTube and start uploading, I do
recommend having an account that is at
least 7 days old and has some watch
history. If you don't do this, YouTube
will think your account is spam and
you'll have no chance at getting views.
Anyway, coming back to our channel, you
will notice that we do have a randomly
generated username. What I'm going to do
is just come into customize channel here
and we are going to change firstly the
name. I don't really know what to call
it, so I'm going to come up here and go
to ChatGPT. I'm just going to feed it a
simple description of what our channel
is about and then ask it for a name
suggestion. Let's see what it gives
back. So, we got quite a few results
here, but immediately what stuck out to
me was this concept here of street dog
salon. Let's copy it and come back over
to YouTube and see if it does give us
the option. And it's not available. What
I like to do if a name is not available
is just add a real at the end and that
is available. Let's roll with that.
Okay, so our channel name is set up.
Let's move on to our channel assets.
Starting off with the profile picture. I
decided to use an AI image generator
called Higgsfield. All I did was type
out an image prompts and click [music]
generate. The image that I decided to
create was this, which was dirty fur on
the left and then clean fur on the
right. With that image downloaded, I
went back over to our channel and
uploaded the profile picture. And after
4 minutes, the channel was ready. Okay,
so the channel is now set up and if you
look for my background, you will notice
that there is no channel banner. We only
have a profile picture set up. And the
reason why I did this is simple. Doesn't
affect how many views we get and we want
to be focusing on views for our YouTube
channel because that's how we get paid.
So, let's continue with what actually
matters. I moved into the most important
stage of a YouTube channel, video
ideation. Because at the end of the day,
the videos you upload determine how many
views you get. Your niche only gives you
direction. So, before creating any
video, I spent 11 minutes simply
generating the video idea. So, that is
the ideation complete and I did do it
based on my intuition rather than
research. At a high level, what made
sense to me was that we do start with a
scruffy dog. Then we conduct an
assessment where we measure the fur
length and the dirt coverage. From
there, we go into an isolate phase where
the dog is placed in a bath and each
tangle is cleaned one by one using a
vacuum. Then for the process phase, it
would be conditioning and a therapeutic
massage. After that, we'd go into the
build phase where we blow dry the hair
and cut the fur to exact measurements
using instruments. And finally, moving
into the reveal phase where it would be
the final transformation. That is the
general idea that I do have for our
first video and for it to move forward
from here, we do need to write a script
and then generate the video using AI. To
help us do this, I did more digging into
the word document that we made earlier
by pasting it into ChatGPT. I did prompt
it to help us understand the scripting
techniques, the average cuts per phase,
and scene durations. This resulted in
the following information, and it does
extend upon our initial general
structure. And we're going to call this
the phase breakdown. It essentially is
acting as a structure for each phase,
where we have the duration of each
phase, how many scenes there are, and
finally a script formula. I hope that
you can see that when you do approach
YouTube like this, you are leaving
nothing up to luck, because it's all
based on proven videos that have
millions of views. Obviously, all of
this is still at a high level, but we do
want to keep it moving from this point,
so we do not get stuck in analysis
paralysis.
Hour two, video creation.
>> It's time to bring the video that we
came up with to life, and we aren't
going to mess around. I first began by
copying out our structure into ChatGPT
for each phase, along with the general
scripting structure that we found, and I
asked it to generate a script. And the
one we got back was not perfect by any
means. Even if you provide AI a lot of
information, you need to remember that
it has no experience at running YouTube
channels. So, you should never rely upon
it. So, I did make many adjustments to
it to improve the flow and better align
it to the Bros N' Phases. It was then
time to make the video using Higgsfield.
I went to the image tab, clicked create
image, and we needed an image prompt,
which goes in this box here. So, I went
over to ChatGPT and gave it a simple
description of what I wanted. For
example, for our first image, I wanted
to create a dog saloon environment that
didn't look perfect, had good lighting,
and had no dogs visible, because at this
stage, I'm just building up our scene.
Once we got the first prompt back, I
copied it over to Higgsfield and pressed
generate. And after 30 seconds, we had
the image back. So, this is how the dog
saloon is going to look. Higgsfield did
a great job at generating this image
based on the image prompt that we gave
it. We are going to use this image going
forward whenever we create an image
within our salon by pressing this
reference image button down here. It's
important to build up your AI scenes
just like I'm doing here because it will
allow you to reach consistency with your
AI videos. So with our reference image
out the way, it was on to creating our
first image for the video. And of
course, we needed a dog. So I went over
to Google images and found this image of
a scruffy dog and it became our second
reference image. And I followed the same
process as before, generating the image
prompt using ChatGPT and then pressing
generate. And finally, we had our first
image for our video, which I was quite
happy with.
>> [snorts]
>> He's pretty He looks pretty cute. I
think I think we need to give him a name
together. I don't know what we'd call
him. No more messing around though, I
got straight back into it. I pressed the
animate button and it took us to Higgs
Field video generator. I just gave it
simple video prompt to have the dog
moving and looking around. And after 30
seconds, the first video was generated.
I was not completely satisfied with the
result though, as it was quite basic and
for it to be one of the first three
scenes in our video, it had to be
perfect. So I decided to work on our
first image a little more. I had an idea
to turn our first image into a Polaroid
with the word before at the bottom and
then recreate our first image with two
gloved hands holding up the Polaroid. I
then turned this image into a video and
then got it back. So second attempt done
at the first video and I'm much more
impressed with this level of quality. It
looks so much better and there's so much
to focus on. I guess with our first
image, we just didn't put enough love
into it. Also with this before Polaroid
idea, I think that at the end of the
video, we can compare this before image
with the completed dog transformation. I
think that's going to be a pretty cool
idea and a better way to feed into the
completion compulsion criteria. At least
I think that it's a good idea, but let's
see if it actually turns out well. So,
with that out the way, I repeated the
same process as you saw, generating the
images and videos for each phase of the
video. It was then time to bring all the
generations together using my editor of
choice, Premiere Pro. Before continuing
though, I did need a voiceover. So, I
did go to Higgs Field voiceover feature
to generate all the voiceovers. After
they were complete, I downloaded them
and dragged them into my timeline. I
removed all the dead air in the
voiceover and then synced up the clips
to the videos. Background music was then
added and finally captions were
generated and sized, leaving a total of
2 hours and 3 minutes of work completed.
So, that's the video completed. I
definitely spent a little too long on
that and I did go overboard, but let me
show you what we were able to create.
And here we go.
Starting off with the declare phase
where we make our declaration. Next, we
move into the assessment phase where we
are measuring the fur length one by one.
And if we skip forward a bit, we
eventually get into the isolate phase
where the dog is [music] placed into a
bath and each tangle is cleaned one by
one using a water vacuum. Skipping
forward a bit, we eventually get into
the process phase where we are
conditioning and massaging the dog.
Skipping forward a bit once again, we
eventually get into the build phase
where we are doing those final trims
using instruments. And after this, we
get into the final reveal where we did
come up with the Polaroid idea where we
have that before and after Polaroid
comparing the final product. And if we
keep going, we finally get into that
pinboard idea that we came up with. So,
that is the video completed and I'm very
impressed with what AI was able to do
for us. We are going to upload this
video and put it to the test now, but if
you do want access to the same image and
video generator that I did use in this
video, you can sign up to Higgsfield
using my link down below. I am sponsored
by Higgsfield, but I can honestly say
they are my go-to AI image and video
generator when creating AI videos. But,
let's continue with uploading the video.
Hour four upload time. It's time to put
everything we've done to the test and
upload our video. For our video title,
we are going to take inspiration from
Brazzan. And based on what we studied
before, his titles usually follow the
following formula. So, now what I'm
going to do is replace these words with
what's relevant to us. Now, what I also
like to do with my titles is add two
emojis. For descriptions again, what
I've done is just taken inspiration from
Brazzan, and then at the bottom here,
we're just going to add
three different hashtags. Okay, our
title and description are sorted. Let's
scroll down here. We always want to
select that this content is not made for
kids, so we don't end up on YouTube
Kids. For all of these other settings
here, there's nothing else that we need
to select. And for tags, I'm just going
to add some that are relevant. Okay, so
it looks good to go. Let's publish this
video. Okay, video is now published, but
there is one last thing that we want to
do. Something that I have noticed about
Brazzan's channel is that he is setting
custom thumbnails. That is why his
channel looks so clean among all of his
uploads. And right now, if you look at
ours, it's a bit ugly. I did not mention
this to you, but while creating our
video, I did create a thumbnail using
Photoshop. And if I come to our video
file here, you will see that I did set
it as our first frame. For setting
custom thumbnails on YouTube Shorts, for
some reason, you can only do it from
your mobile phone. So, I'm going to come
into my phone here and select my YouTube
app, then come to our channel, and then
we can see our first video there with
the ugly thumbnail. I'm going to press
those three buttons, then press edit,
and then press this pencil in the top
left. And then, because it's our first
frame, all we need to do [music] is just
press the tick button and then save.
And then if we come to our computer here
and refresh, the thumbnail has now
updated and it looks so much more clean.
To be honest though, even though we did
this, it probably won't affect how many
views we get on our video. It's more so
if YouTube starts to serve this video on
the YouTube homepage. And I really hope
it does because we only have 24 hours to
make this work. But for now, let's sit
back and see how this video performs.
Hour 12. After taking a break across the
afternoon, it was onto another phase of
ideation for a second video. For our
video structure this time, I decided to
replace the dog with a cat because I
really wanted to lean further into the
absurdity angle for our second video.
And this new structure does because cats
don't get groomed as often as dogs. With
the video ideation complete for the
second video, I went back over to
Higgsfield to start creating the second
video. And during this time, I did have
a first look at our analytics. So, we
are currently undergoing our first push
from YouTube. And you can see that it's
a straight line upwards. [music] I do
expect that this line does start to
flatten out as it already is because
this is our first push. When your
channel is new and you start posting
YouTube shorts, it's very common for
YouTube to do test pushes just like the
one we are experiencing now. And during
these pushes, YouTube begins to
understand one, who is interacting best
with your content and two, testing your
short to see how well it performs
against that audience. And we can get an
early insight into how good it is
performing by coming out to our
dashboard here and looking at this
metric here of average percentage
viewed. It is equal to 82% and
considering our video length is 59
seconds, that is very strong. I am going
to continue making our second video here
though because it will allow us to have
another upload ready if this video does
not continue performing like we expect.
After that quick check-in, I got
straight back to creating our second
video using Higgs Field. After doing all
the generations and editing the video
just as before, the second video was
finally completed after 2 hours and 4
minutes.
Hour 20.
It's now the next morning after
finishing our second video and we have
not uploaded it yet because we do not
want to overwhelm the algorithm. We want
to give it one thing to focus on. I have
not checked out the analytics just yet
though, but one good sign already is
that we do have channel notifications,
which means either one, people are
commenting or two, they are subscribing.
And let's click this bell notification
to find out and it's three subscribers.
That's not too bad. I would have
preferred comments, but let's come up
here to our channel profile picture and
then press YouTube Studio and
14,000 views. Fantastic. More
importantly though, our average
percentage viewed is 88%. [music]
That is a 6% increase from yesterday,
which means that as YouTube is
continuing to push this video, it's
performing even better, which is a very
strong signal to YouTube to keep pushing
this video. As for our channel
subscribers, we are at 18, which is
great, but one thing that I do want to
see coming into the next 24 hours is to
see some channel comments come through
because that is a really good indication
that people enjoy your content. But with
this out the way, let's head into our
video analytics and get a deeper look.
Okay, very interesting pushes here. So,
most importantly, that first push that
we were analyzing last night to around
1,000 views looks very small in
comparison to the other pushes that we
got. We did get this larger push here at
around 5 hours and then another push at
around 7 hours. And then now, we are
continually being pushed into the
algorithm [music] every hour, leaving us
at 14,500
views. I know that we are only at 14,000
views, but in my opinion, since we are
continually being pushed and our
attention continues to increase, it
looks like that this is only the
beginning for Street Dogs Salon.
Hour 27.
As you can see, it's slowing down, which
wasn't expected. YouTube can be an
emotional roller coaster, where things
can be going perfectly, but then all of
a sudden, it just doesn't continue as
expected. It is important for us to stay
in level headed though, because
fundamentally, our stats remain almost
perfect. We have also reached 30
subscribers now, but still no comments,
which is not ideal. Our like to dislike
ratio remains healthy, but yeah, not
much else we can do right now, but
remain positive. I am still holding off
our second upload here just because I do
need to see at least 12 hours of a
continual flatline before we upload our
second video.
It has been just under 12 hours since we
spoke last and I did have a peek at the
analytics. And I'm not going to lie, it
might shock you just like it did myself.
And drumroll, please.
300,000
views.
Insane, right? It seems that after
flatlining for a while, we got pushed
very aggressively and it seems like it's
not going to slow down anytime soon.
Usually, I don't see results as fast as
this because I usually select niches
with low universal relatability.
Regardless of all this though, we are
still seeing a very strong continued
average percentage viewed rate of 85%.
It has slowed down by around 3%, but
that's to be expected considering how
hard YouTube has pushed this video. One
elephant in the room though is that we
have seen a massive increase in
subscribers to 730.
And more importantly, we have finally
got 22 comments. We are still unable to
see a very important metric called swipe
through rate, which usually sits in this
box here. And this metric does refer to
how many people stay watching our video
past the first 3 seconds. But
considering how hard we are being
pushed, I assume it's very high. Overall
though, I am so proud of what we were
able to achieve here with just one
upload.
I will update you tomorrow. Jack Craig
Coaching. If you want to start your own
YouTube channel that generates you an
income, you can get access to my private
coaching. Inside my coaching, [music]
I take you through the same process that
you see in my videos for either
long-form or short-form content. I help
you develop your own niche that is built
for growth and guide you through the
ideation and execution of every video
you upload. Because my coaching programs
are highly personalized and hands-on, I
can only work with a few people [music]
per month. Using my website that is
linked below, you can learn more about
my coaching and apply. And as you would
expect with me, I have verifiable
results that my coaching actually works
across [music] both video and written
testimonials.
Hour 48 final update.
So, it's hour 48 and we are now at
700,000
views. Well, to be specific, 694,000.
Our average percentage view did drop by
around 18%, which is not ideal, but it
doesn't matter because we have 700,000
views in the last 48 hours. So, things
did go better than expected. [music]
Even to the point where it still doesn't
make sense to upload our second video
because we are still being pushed. We
aren't seeing nearly as high viewership
per hour compared to 12 hours ago, but
it is still substantial at around 10,000
views per hour. And finally, we did hit
2,000 [music]
subscribers. This is our live view
count. Let's see together whether we can
see an increase.
>> [music]
>> There we go.
Almost perfectly when I said it. But, I
do want you to realize what occurred
here though, over the last 48 hours on a
random weekday. We were able to start a
YouTube channel that could very well go
on to continue to earn thousands of
dollars per month. Just like our
inspiration channel, Brave Zeon. And
yes, this content would be monetizable.
A lot of creators on this platform do
spread misinformation and fear-monger
about whether AI content is monetizable
or not simply for views. To explain the
facts to you though, YouTube did
introduce a policy called inauthentic
content, [snorts] which does target AI
content, but not the content that we
have created here today. What they
specifically don't monetize is one,
content that has minimal variation
across uploads, or two, content that is
easily replicable at scale. As you've
seen today, the process that we follow
is very manual and there is a large
human element involved. And I think that
we need a definition when we create AI
content in this way. Perhaps something
like AI-enabled content. And the
definition would be content in which
artificial intelligence serves as an
extension of human creative vision,
producing outcomes that would not be
feasible [music] through traditional
means. And this is very different from
AI slop. And if you are still concerned
about YouTube's stance on AI, YouTube
has been pushing creators to use their
AI through the YouTube Create app. And
if you go through with it by providing a
video prompt, then wait for it to
generate, they do immediately offer you
to upload that AI video straight onto
their platform. So, if that's not
evidence that YouTube wants you to
create AI content, I don't know what is.
If you want to be at the front of this
new era of content creation and want my
help in doing so, you can get access to
my private coaching using the link
below, where I do help creators of all
levels start their own profitable
YouTube channel.